---
layout: post
title: Let's C
---
Let's start with a brief history of the C programming language.

## The History of C
The C programming language was invented in the Bell Labs in 1969 as a by product of the UNIX operating system. 
It was developed by Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson as an easier way to code on the UNIX platform.

For further reading, read: *History of C*

King, K. N. (2008). *C Programming: A Modern Approach* (2nd ed.). New York, NY: W.W. Norton & Company.

## C Fundamentals
### Writing a simple program
```c
/*	Program letus.c	*/

#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
	printf("Let us C!/n");
	
	return 0;
}
```
**Filename:** `letus.c`

Every C program follow a general form
```c
directives

int main(void)
{
	statements;
}
```
#### What are directives?
Before a C program is compiled, it is first edited by a program called a preprocessor. Commands intended for the preprocessor are called directives.

In the program `letus.c`, it begins with the line:

`#include <stdio.h>`

This is a directive to the preprocessor to include the information found in the **header** `<stdio.h>` in to the program `letus.c` before it is compiler.
We will discuss headers more in-depth as we become more familiar with C.

`<stdio.h>` *is the header responsible for **Standard Input and Output** within the program. It enables us to use the standard function* `printf()` *in our programs.*

C has many **headers** like `<stdio.h>`; each contain information about some functionality provided by the standard library.

:black_nib: **Note:** The C Standard library is a set of pre-compiled functionality that enables us to do regular *functions* without having to reinvent the wheel. 